So good to see you.
>> Welcome to Venice, California.
>> Thank you. I mean, you brought the
sunshine.
>> I think you brought the sunshine. It's
beautiful day out here.
>> I'm in sunny LA, surrounded by sand,
surf, and skateboarders. It may be far
from the mega campuses of Silicon
Valley, but it's where Evan Spiegel, the
co-founder and CEO of Snap, feels most
at home.
>> 10 million people walk the boardwalk
every single year. And I think for us
that was so special because all these
people from all over the world were
walking by our office every single day.
We had a big ghost logo out front.
>> Yep.
>> You may know Snap as the popular
messaging app made for sending
disappearing photos and videos.
>> Some people can't handle success. I
can't.
>> That had a meteoric rise with Spiegel
[music] at its helm.
>> Snapchat uh always starts with a snap.
These days, he's grown up, still in
founder mode, and trying to stay
competitive in the everanging world of
social media. [music] To do that,
Spiegel's doubling down on consumer
hardware and going head-to-head with
giants like Google, Meta, [music] and
Apple in the race to bring augmented
reality to the masses.
>> I think for us, it's it's really about
this transition from a screen-based
[music]
way of interacting with computers to
interacting with computers in the real
world through augmented reality. that
this is going to be one of the biggest
and most profound shifts in in
computing.
>> These are trillion dollar companies,
though, and Snap is a multi-billion
dollar company.
>> A baby a baby company.
>> A baby company.
>> So, he's on a quest and having some fun
along the way.
>> I don't know where these arrows are
going, but
>> Oh.
>> Oh, there we go. So, we're looking at
the future [music] literally right now.
Is that what we're doing?
>> Feels like it.
You grew up in Southern California. What
kind of kid were you? Were you one of
the cool kids or were you one of the
nerds trying to be cool?
>> You know, I think my wife always says
it's cool to be uncool. So, I definitely
uh was not not one of the cool uh kids.
You know, I I grew up and my parents
didn't let me watch TV at all. Oh,
really?
>> Uh so, I was very into reading.
>> It's okay to be a nerd. I was totally a
nerd. I think we turned out okay. I saw
that you were really interested in
graphic design early on. How did that
sort of shape your approach?
>> I think for me it was that intersection
of being able to express myself through
art, but to do it with a computer and to
use these really really powerful tools
that made me feel like, you know,
anything was was possible. And then
later on that sort of prompt me to build
my own computer and to pursue ultimately
product design uh in college.
>> What was it that made you say I need to
drop out? Like I need to do this. I I
was standing in the back of this
machining class and I at that time we we
were [music] signed the documents. We
were waiting for our venture investors
Lightseed to fund and I was refreshing
the Wells Fargo app in the back of the
class. Saw the $485,000 hit. Walked up
to my [music] teacher Craig and just
said, "You know what? I'm so sorry. I'm
going to have to drop this class." But I
went back and finished that class with
Craig many years later.
>> When [music] Snapchat debuted in 2011,
[clears throat] social media looked a
little different. MySpace was on its way
out. Facebook and Twitter were huge. And
Instagram had just launched. The startup
economy was [music] booming.
>> At the time, it would take like a minute
to send a photo, which was just crazy.
So, we invented a way to send it photos
really, really quickly. People were
starting to use it to talk. So, we
renamed it Snapchat. We added captions
and drawing and all the fun uh creative
tools people use.
>> Within a few years, Snapchat was [music]
rising in popularity.
>> That is rainbow vomit,
>> stirring up its share of controversy
[music] and catching the attention of
Silicon Valley. I remember the first
time I saw Snapchat in the wild. We were
at an ice cream parlor and there was
this crowd of kids in front of us and
they all had their phones up and I was
like, "Oh, they're taking pictures of
the ice cream." And my husband
whispered, "They're Snapchatting." And I
was like, "Oh, this is this is becoming
a thing." Like it was really a moment.
>> Teens everywhere believe they're sending
their own self-destructing messages
online with an app called Snapchat.
>> Was there sort of an inflection point
where you felt like things really took
off? Snapchat [snorts] changed people's
relationship with photos and made them
about communicating. And it turns out
people communicate way more than they
save things. And so there was a moment
in time when, you know, we realized that
the number of photos people were taking
and sending on Snapchat, you know,
eclipsed the total number of normal
photos people were taking on the world,
you know, out in the world with their
with their smartphones. And I think that
was really the moment that we realized
there had been this huge shift that like
the majority use case or the primary use
case for cameras was communicating not
saving things.
>> The rise of Snapchat also made Spiegel
one of the youngest billionaires in the
world by age 25. How did you manage
having so much responsibility and money
and fame at such a young age?
>> What a great uh question. I you know I I
felt really fortunate that I live in a
place where my family is. So my family,
my high school buddies, my like all my,
you know, friends from from school and
from growing up are are here in LA. My
parents live, fortunately, they're still
alive and live 10 minutes away. So I've
got a really strong support network.
>> What was your first I made it purchase.
>> Oh my gosh, this is going to be so
embarrassing. I was still living at uh
my dad's house. My first purchase was a
uh pre-owned Ferrari. I went to the
Ferrari dealership and walked in. They
they must have looked at me like, "What
are you doing?" I was like, "Oh, can I
buy a car?" And they're like, "What?"
Yeah.
>> So, I came the next day, gave him the
cashier check, and I drove home, and my
dad was very upset because, you know,
he's like, "Where are you going to park
this thing?" I mean, not in front of my
house.
>> Instead of settling in the Bay Area,
like most tech [music] startups,
Snapchat's first official office that
wasn't in Spiegel's dad's house was in
this small but iconic spot.
>> Welcome to the Blue House. And just
imagine, there's a big ghost right out
front right there. So tourists would
come by, snap photos with the ghost and
>> and come up and and knock on the door to
get help with their account, too, and
give feedback, which is is always uh
appreciated.
>> So why a ghost?
>> Well, in the beginning, the app was
called Pickaboo. So it was Boo Like a
Ghost, and I drew the little ghost in my
uh dorm room.
>> You drew it?
>> Yeah. Back in the day, it was holding a
Polaroid, too, which was pretty cute.
But we simplified it, got rid of the
Polaroid, and uh now it's just the
Snapchat ghost.
>> You loved Venice, but Venice didn't
always love you. I mean, there was quite
a bit of backlash. Say no to the IPO.
Say no to the IPO.
>> There are people holding signs. Venice
is a community, not a corporate campus.
How did you handle that?
>> It's definitely a lively environment,
but we we never anticipated that we
would grow uh so quickly. And I think
that did put some pressure on the
community and ultimately is part of the
reason why we we ended up moving to our
our campus in in Santa Monica as the
company sort of reached a different
phase of growth. But those early days
will always, you know, be a special have
a special place in my heart.
>> [music]
>> As luck would have it, the current
occupants of the blue house were happy
to let us in for a [music] tour to
relive the memories.
>> Congrats on uh getting going.
>> Thanks. Yeah, hopefully we can have some
similar success to you guys.
>> I have no doubt this house is very
lucky. I think
>> Hi, thanks for letting us crash your
peaceful Venice morning.
>> This is actually where we all sat when
we decided to stay in Los Angeles cuz
that was a big debate at the time. You
know, our investors were saying maybe
move to the Bay Area and this kind of
thing. We all sat here and kind of heard
everyone's perspective and everyone
wanted to stay. I shared a desk here
with one of our team members, Micah. We
were playing footsy under the table
sometimes. [laughter]
>> Oh my goodness, look at that. I mean,
>> that's a pretty magical spot. Not bad
for a first office.
>> Not bad for a first office.
>> Snap went public in 2017 and left its
startup days behind. But no matter how
much the company has changed, Spiegel
has stayed committed to his vision. It's
easy to forget because it's been so long
now, but Snap popularized so many things
that are just like a fact of social
media today. Disappearing messages,
stories, filters and lenses, even
vertical video, location tags. What was
it about you and Snap's culture that
enabled that?
>> Well, I I think one of the things that
was really unique is that we were mobile
first. So, we were one of the first
services to start building mobile only.
A lot of our competitors actually had
started on the desktop and were
migrating to mobile. But we had grown up
with smartphones and even things as
simple as you know back in the day when
you would open your camera, you had to
choose between photo or video. So we
invented this button where you would tap
to take a photo or press and hold uh for
video is the same of course for stories.
For vertical video it was so obvious to
us. I mean all the video at the time was
cut horizontally.
>> So it was all about making things more
human.
>> Yeah. and easier uh to use. Designed
around the the way that people live
instead of forcing people to change the
way they live to use technology.
>> Snap has always made big waves for its
size in Silicon Valley, inspiring
copycats and sparking some rivalries
along the way.
>> Your LinkedIn says you're the VP of
product at Meta. How do you really feel?
>> Well, I wish that was my joke cuz I get
so much positive feedback uh on that
one. You know, one of the fun parts of
being a designer is building stuff that
lots of people use. But it's also meant
that from the very early days as we saw
how the competitive landscape would play
out that we invested in technology that
was highly differentiated, that was
very, very difficult to copy and that
has platform characteristics.
>> This is legend, but I want to hear it
from you. Mark Zuckerberg famously
offered $3 billion to Bayou back in the
day. Tell me about the journey of
emotions there and what gave you the
courage to say no.
>> Well, I can say now publicly it was a
hell of a lot more than that. Uh which
is pretty wild. So I think for us um
there were
>> there was more than three you're saying
>> a lot more than three I is. Yeah I
think.
>> Okay.
>> Um
I think for us there were a couple
things. The first one was that we saw a
much bigger opportunity uh for for
Snapchat. A lot of that was informed by,
you know, having the experience of
watching Instagram, which sold very very
early in their life as a a company,
ultimately has become a huge driver of
growth for Meta, an incredible uh
business. And I think watching that and
learning from that sort of story and
that feeling we had that wow, they they
had sold way too early definitely
informed some of our thinking. But more
importantly, we saw so much potential
for Snapchat. So we thought, you know,
that we could build a really big
business on our own. Where do you get
your conviction?
>> I grew up with two parents who were both
lawyers. My mother was a tax lawyer. My
dad does business litigation. So, our
dining table conversations were
energetic to say the least. That's the
primary format actually of our design
meetings. We spend, you know, 3 or four
hours a week just looking at work and
debating [music] it and really, you
know, developing that confidence in the
philosophy, in the underlying
perspective or point of view.
>> [music]
>> Snap, like many social media companies,
makes most of its money through ads,
making it vulnerable to the internet's
[music] everchanging whims. A single
tweet from Kylie Jenner once wiped a
billion dollars off its market [music]
cap. And when it comes to users,
competition is fierce. Just how big a
threat is Tik Tok? I mean, they seem to
be setting the trends that you set in
the early days.
>> They have some real advantages that make
them a tough competitor. One, of course,
is that they're allowed to operate in
China, and we're not. They have a very
very large and profitable business in
China that they can use to fund their
growth outside of China. And so
especially as you know they've been
competing with us in the early days.
It's not like competing with a normal
startup. It's like competing with a a
giant conglomerate because they have so
many different services that's able to
spend tens of billions of dollars uh to
grow. And so it's been an unbelievably
formative journey for Snap to try to
figure out, you know, how to compete
with them in addition to the really big
players here. Snap is [music] currently
sitting below its IPO price. Earnings
can be notoriously brutal.
>> But I think the massive problem for Snap
is actually no one really knows what it
is.
>> Do you think Snap's best days could be
behind it?
>> It really was a dismal quarter for Snap.
>> How do you manage the pressure of
running a public company? Does that get
to you?
>> I think what's so important uh is that
we just continue to to stay focused on
our vision and that we clearly
communicate that to our team. I had such
an inspiring conversation with Jensen
because they were trying to grow this
GPU business. People didn't think they
could win in GPUs and, you know, he he
mentioned to me, you know, it just felt
like I never had a clean quarter.
>> So, what was Jensen's advice?
>> Just knuckle down. It's funny, too,
because at the time he had young kids,
you know, and he was joking around. He's
like, "So, I'd bring my kids to work in
a basket, you know, and you know, we'd
be at the office 7 days a week to to try
to win that future." And I think
ultimately to invest so consistently
over a long time frame at this scale is
such an advantage. But, you know,
sometimes it means we don't have a clean
quarter.
>> Spiegel's focus on winning the future
involves a multi-billion dollar bet on
smart glasses, something he's been
committed to for over a decade, even
though there's no proven market yet.
What do we got here?
>> This is uh Specs Memory Lane.
>> This was my first pair of Specs. [music]
I loved the color. I was like, "Yes, I
felt very hip." The goal was really to
just see if we could inspire people to
wear a camera on their face, which at
the time was, I'd say, pretty taboo. We
tried to make it really playful. One of
our one of our constant inspirations is
the EMS quote that says, you know, toys
are are really the prelude to serious
ideas. And so often times when we're
thinking about technology, we want to
create something that's inviting that
people want to play with even if the
underlying technology or the vision for
the technology is is much more serious
or or ambitious. This this was
generation one and this is sort of like
the tennis ball can design that popped
out of the vending machines that at that
point in time we were all recovering
from the Google glass hole scandal where
it was really people people felt it was
invasive or inappropriate to wear
cameras.
>> Google released its first smart glasses
to the public back in 2014.
>> What better way to start off the next
big thing summit than with Google Glass
>> and the feedback wasn't always good.
Strange
>> glass ended up being kind of a flop, but
that didn't deter Spiegel.
>> The next big step that we took with
Specs was this one.
>> Okay, this was a big step.
>> This was a big Oh, awesome. [laughter]
>> This was a really big step for us
because instead of just having one
camera, we had two cameras. And with two
cameras,
>> there's two.
>> Okay.
>> With two cameras, you get depth and
therefore you get an understanding of
the world and the environment that
you're in. and you get 3D content, the
ability to overlay AR effects on that
content, and this was really the
foundation of beginning the augmented
reality journey.
>> All right, let's go try some stuff.
>> To test out the vision, we headed to a
nearby park for some games on Snap's
latest prototype.
>> Game on.
>> Game on. Watch out. [music]
>> Archer Champ.
>> Right there. Oh,
>> that wasn't bad. I don't know where
these arrows are going, but [music] I
one of them hit.
>> Oh, there we go. All right, you crushed
me. Okay. So, walk me through the
design, the features.
>> Specs have a dual SOC design, meaning
there are two processors on board, one
on this side and one on this side. And
they talk to each other through a custom
architecture we built. So that one SOC
is responsible for the computer vision,
understanding the world around you, and
the other one is really responsible for
the application layer or all those
lenses that you're experiencing. Do you
see one called Sitecraft? [music]
>> Sitecraft. Yeah.
>> It's not showing me the menu. You see a
little
>> says avoid plane. Improve lighting. Make
details visible.
>> Okay. Okay. So, this is kind of fun.
Let's make our own little walking track.
Basically, if as soon as you go through
the starting line, you're going to have
your
>> So, I'm trying to just
>> race is on. So, then follow you can
follow your little Yeah.
>> Do I look graceful? [laughter]
>> Okay, this was so fun. I'm still
skeptical that people are going to put a
camera on their faces. And it turns out
I'm not the only one.
>> Would you wear a pair of smart glasses?
>> No.
>> No. No camera on your face.
>> That's disgusting.
>> Yeah. No.
>> No.
>> Okay.
>> I really don't like glasses in general.
Our privacy is invaded.
>> There's the privacy risk amped up with
AI providing new ways to collect and
exploit personal data.
>> I know behaviors have changed a lot, but
it still can be like a little unnerving
when someone turns to face you and
they've got a camera right on you. I
think you're right to feel that about
camera glasses when the primary use case
of glasses is a camera. I don't think
there's enough utility or a benefit for
there to be real social acceptance
across the world at a broad scale. I
think the turning point's going to come
when you say, "Hey, are you taking a
picture?" And and they say, "No, I'm
watching a movie." And you're going to
be like, "What
>> do glasses make our lives more social or
more antisocial?"
>> I think they're going to create points
of connection in the real world, which
is fundamentally what we as humans
really need. Literally uh you know two
months ago I I looked through our front
door and two of our boys are running
around outside with the glasses on
playing together and laughing and
they're using a computer but they're
using it in a totally new way. And so I
do think if we redesign computers, if we
rethink computing, we can bring people
together.
>> Despite my skepticism, the smart glasses
market is growing [music] with Meta,
Apple, Amazon, and Google all announcing
buzzy brand partnerships and investing
[music] a lot of capital.
>> How do you compete? These are massive
companies.
>> In our view, the technology stacks are
actually quite different. What we've
always found is just a singular focus
and execution against that over a very
long period of time helps to compound a
technological advantage that I I think
positions us well competitively.
>> How does AI change AR? I
>> I think fundamentally AR is the
interface uh for AI. So a lot of people
right now are spending time investing in
building these really big models.
There's a lot of competition around
that. You can almost think about that as
the back end of AI, right? But where
we're spending a lot of our time and
where we're very interested is what is
the front end of AI? How are people
actually going to interact with and
engage with AI? And the reason why we
think AR is such a powerful interface is
because it brings AI into the world with
you. So it can understand your
environment, understand who you're with,
obviously make the right, you know,
recommendations in terms of your uh
experience, but be very very helpful in
the moment as well.
AI isn't just shaping the future of
augmented reality. It's also changing
social media, including Snapchat, which
introduced its own chatbot in 2023, to
mixed reviews. Snapchat is still hugely
popular among teens and young adults,
who will be at the forefront of the
benefits and risks of new technology.
Spiegel will have to navigate how to
keep [music] innovating while protecting
the mental health and safety of his
users. Maybe I'm just a geriatric
millennial, but some of the things, you
know, snap streaks, snap credits, snap
maps. Some of those things actually seem
like they might not be good for kids
and, you know, make you feel left out if
you're not on the map with your friends
or make you feel like you have to keep
snapping to keep that streak going. How
do you think about those things?
>> We've thought a lot over the years about
how to, you know, do things like reduce
the pressure of streaks. So, we've
learned from our community and very,
very small number of people feel
pressure around streaks. For those
people, we've just made it very easy to
restore the streak. If you lose it, you
can restore it.
>> Snap's design choices and role as a
self-professed messaging app have put
Spiegel along with other companies in
the hot seat over how to keep people
safe online.
>> No legislation is perfect, but some
rules of the road are better than none.
>> It's a topic that's gaining momentum at
a global [music] level. Australia
recently became the first country to ban
social media for teens under 16, and
that [music] includes Snapchat. Would
you say that safety and enforcement are
treated with the same urgency inside the
company as like design and engineering
and growth and product? And what would
prove that to an outside viewer?
>> I would say at at many points in time,
it's had more urgency because unless
people can feel safe using our products,
they're they're not going to feel
comfortable expressing themselves or
communicating with their friends. But I
think, you know, whether it's some
recent Senate hearings or uh you know,
some of the the cases and the legal
discovery that's ongoing to understand
what has Snap done uh right and wrong to
to respond to these crises. Over time,
the public will build a lot of
confidence in our response.
>> Kids are using Snap and other apps to
send nude photos of themselves to other
kids. AI is like gasoline on the fire.
Where does this go?
>> Well, I think it's really important for
people to understand that's a crime. And
I think you know there's been some some
really powerful legislation passed
recently the take it down act which
helps uh protect people from being
revictimized by that sort of content.
There are tools available that if you
are being victimized in that way if you
have had private images that have been
exposed there are tools you can use
online to create a hash of that image
upload it and take it down from all the
various uh platforms snap included who
have integrated with that uh service.
>> Do you think these things get better
like do kids learn? You know, I think
like to maybe the more optimistic view
here would be younger generations are
not engaging in risk-taking behaviors at
the rate that their older generations
were. In fact, overall, if you look at
drug use, if you look at sexual behavior
and at, you know, for teenagers and
these sorts of things, they've declined
dramatically. And I think, you know,
there there's reason to be optimistic
that education, people's awareness of
the risks of of these sorts of behaviors
have have, you know, changed the way
they act out in the world.
>> Is that a good thing? because aren't
they just spending more time on screens
than taking risks outside?
>> My general view uh is that that people
are, you know, spending spending time on
screens that that could be spent in
maybe different or or more productive
ways. That's certainly one of the
reasons why we've invested so heavily in
specs because we believe, you know,
instead of a a classroom where
everyone's sitting behind a laptop, what
if you could all get together, look at
the same thing, do simulated chemical
reactions in your uh chemistry lab
without making a mess. I think all of a
sudden you have education that's
interactive, that's shared in in the
real world that's a lot more fun and
doesn't involve just sitting behind, you
know, hunched over a screen.
>> Spiegel has big responsibilities to
manage and a new technology curve to
ride. It's all part of his grand plan to
build a better future that keeps us out
of dark digital rabbit holes and keeps
our feet in the real world, even if that
means strapping computers to our faces.
What is the social media of the future?
like what will next generations be
using? [music]
>> My hope is that the social network of
the future is right here in person. So,
I think one of the biggest challenges we
face today is we've gotten so good at
connecting with people who are really
far away, but we've gotten less good at
connecting with people right in front of
us or across from us at the dinner
table.
>> What's surprised you most about how the
tech industry [music] has evolved? I
think for me one of the the things
that's that's most surprising is the
bigness the scale of the winners
especially I think technology was always
seen as an enabler of a revolutionary
spirit right and technology was designed
to empower all of us I think today to
see that vision almost inverted uh where
you know the scale of these very large
technology companies almost feels
totally overwhelming is something I
wouldn't have anticipated with uh I
think in an industry that was really
designed to be revolutionary and
individually empowering and to create
more uh freedom. So I I think that's
still possible and we're seeing another,
you know, technological revolution
underway with AI.
>> Is the bigness a bad thing? Should it be
broken up?
>> I don't think it's a bad thing
necessarily.
>> It makes it difficult for like the next
snap to be born, right?
>> For for us to be a nearly 1 billion uh
monthly active user platform and be
considered small is pretty wild. But I
think it's those platform shifts that
are going to create new opportunity in
an industry that really does have a very
small number of of very concentrated
players.
>> Oh, there's a ghost. [laughter]
>> Oh, nice. You got it.
>> Are we going to be snapping straight
from our brains?
>> Probably not in my lifetime, but uh
>> someday.
>> But maybe one day.
That's nice.
>> Oh, you're [music] bald. I mean, that's
>> good for the bodybuilder scene,
[laughter]
>> Wait. Do it otherwise.